docs/available_templates/web_website_python.rst, before:

web-website-python
-------------------

Purpose
^^^^^^^^

This template is a `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_  based Web Template that can be customized from two basic layouts and many available frontend templates.
It contains all the code, necessary for project setup and automatic deployment on a Linux server. It also provides a GitHub Workflow for automatic CSS linting on push using
`Stylelint <https://stylelint.io/>`_.

Design
^^^^^^^^
The whole template is designed to be as customizable as possible. Note that all templates could be customized
with a full featured Frontend template setup during the template creation process. However, if you don´t like the offered templates or simply want to create your own frontend,
you can create your template with only a minimal frontend.
You can choose from two main options:

The basic setup
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The basic theme is designed to provide only minimal code needed for getting started: Thus it comes
with only minimal HTML/CSS/JS code (but you can initalize it with a full featured frontend, if you want to) and basic Flask configuration.
However, it contains all the code needed for automatic deployment on a Linux server and adheres to the cookietemple project structure standards.

.. code::

    ├── AUTHORS.rst
    ├── CHANGELOG.rst
    ├── .coafile
    ├── CODEOFCONDUCT.rst
    ├── cookietemple.cfg
    ├── .cookietemple.yml
    ├── .dependabot
    │   └── config.yml
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── docs
    │   ├── authors.rst
    │   ├── changelog.rst
    │   ├── codeofconduct.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   ├── installation.rst
    │   ├── make.bat
    │   ├── Makefile
    │   ├── modules.rst
    │   ├── readme.rst
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── _static
    │   │   └── custom_cookietemple.css
    │   └── usage.rst
    ├── .editorconfig
    ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── cli.py
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield.py
    │   ├── files
    │   │   └── test.txt
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── .github
    │   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── bug_report.md
    │   │   ├── feature_request.md
    │   │   └── general_question.md
    │   ├── pull_request.md
    │   └── workflows
    │       ├── build_docs.yml
    │       ├── build_package.yml
    │       ├── flake8_linting.yml
    │       ├── pr_to_master_from_dev_only.yml
    │       ├── publish_package.yml
    │       └── tox_testsuite.yml
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile
    ├── MANIFEST.in
    ├── README.rst
    ├── .readthedocs.yml
    ├── requirements_dev.txt
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── tests
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── test_Exploding_Springfield.py
    ├── tox.ini
    └── .travis.yml


The advanced setup
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The advanced theme comes with a lot more functionality by default (and can also be initialized with a full featured, nice frontend):

1. It uses `FlaskSQL-Alchemy <https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/>`_ and `FlaskMigrate <https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to setup a `SQLite <https://www.sqlite.org/index.html>`_ application for simple User Login.

2. It provides translation for German and English using `Flask-Babel <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/>`_.
3. It provides sending mail through `Flask-Mail <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Mail/>`_.
4. It provides error handling through custom error pages.
5. Its configured to be automatically deployed in seconds on a Linux server.
6. More is WIP (Contributions are welcome).

.. code::

    ├── AUTHORS.rst
    ├── babel.cfg
    ├── CHANGELOG.rst
    ├── CODEOFCONDUCT.rst
    ├── cookietemple.cfg
    ├── .cookietemple.yml
    ├── .dependabot
    │   └── config.yml
    ├── deployment_scripts
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield.service
    │   ├── README.md
    │   └── setup.sh
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── docs
    │   ├── authors.rst
    │   ├── changelog.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── contributing.rst
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   ├── installation.rst
    │   ├── make.bat
    │   ├── Makefile
    │   ├── readme.rst
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── _static
    │   │   └── custom_cookietemple.css
    │   └── usage.rst
    ├── .editorconfig
    ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── app.py
    │   ├── auth
    │   │   ├── forms
    │   │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   │   ├── login_form.py
    │   │   │   └── register_form.py
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── routes.py
    │   ├── config.py
    │   ├── errors
    │   │   ├── handlers.py
    │   │   └── __init__.py
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── main
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── routes.py
    │   ├── models
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── users.py
    │   ├── server.py
    │   ├── services
    │   │   └── __init__.py
    │   ├── static
    │   │   ├── assets
    │   │   │   ├── css
    │   │   │   │   └── min_css.css
    │   │   │   ├── images
    │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   ├── js
    │   │   │   │   └── min_jss.js
    │   │   │   ├── sass
    │   │   │   │   ├── base
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   ├── components
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   ├── layout
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   └── libs
    │   │   │   │       └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   └── webfonts
    │   │   │       └── gitkeep
    │   │   └── mail_stub.conf
    │   ├── templates
    │   │   ├── auth
    │   │   │   ├── login.html
    │   │   │   └── register.html
    │   │   ├── base.html
    │   │   ├── errors
    │   │   │   ├── 400.html
    │   │   │   ├── 403.html
    │   │   │   ├── 404.html
    │   │   │   ├── 410.html
    │   │   │   ├── 500.html
    │   │   │   └── error_template.html
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── translations
    │       └── de
    │           └── LC_MESSAGES
    │               ├── messages.mo
    │               └── messages.po
    ├── .github
    │   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── bug_report.md
    │   │   ├── feature_request.md
    │   │   └── general_question.md
    │   ├── pull_request.md
    │   └── workflows
    │       ├── build_docs.yml
    │       ├── build_package.yml
    │       ├── css_lint.yml
    │       ├── flake8_linting.yml
    │       ├── pr_to_master_from_dev_only.yml
    │       └── tox_testsuite.yml
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile
    ├── MANIFEST.in
    ├── README.rst
    ├── .readthedocs.yml
    ├── requirements_dev.txt
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── .stylelintrc.json
    ├── tests
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── test_Exploding_Springfield.py
    ├── tox.ini
    └── .travis.yml


Included frameworks/libraries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Both templates are based on `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_ and, in the case of the advanced layout,
make heavy use of its extensions.

1. `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_
2. `click <https://click.palletsprojects.com/>`_, `argparse <https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html>`_ or no command line interface
3. `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`_ or `unittest <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_ as testing frameworks
4. Preconfigured `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to run pytest matrices with different Python environments
5. Preconfigured `readthedocs <https://readthedocs.org/>`_
6. Eight Github workflows:

  1. :code:`build_docs.yml`, which builds the readthedocs documentation.
  2. :code:`build_package.yml`, which builds the web-template package.
  3. :code:`run_flake8_linting.yml`, which runs `flake8 <https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ linting.
  4. :code:`run_tox_testsuite.yml`, which runs the tox testing suite.
  5. :code:`run_css_lint.yml`, which runs `Stylelint <https://stylelint.io/>`_ CSS linting.
  6. :code:`run_codecov`, apply codecov to your project/PRs in your project and create automatically a report with the details at `codecov.io <https://codecov.io>`_
  7. :code:`run_bandit`, run `bandit <https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit>`_ to discover security issues in your python code
  8. :code:`pr_to_master_from_patch_release_only`: Please read :ref:`pr_master_workflow_docs`.


We highly recommend to use click (if commandline interface is required) together with pytest.

The advanced template therefore uses some more packages including:

1. `FlaskSQL-Alchemy <https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/>`_
2. `Flask-Migrate <https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
3. `Flask-Babel <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/>`_ for translations
4. `Flask-Mail <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Mail/>`_ for mail
5. `Flask-Bootstrap <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Bootstrap/>`_ for basic login page styling
6. `Flask-Login <https://flask-login.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ for login session management
7. `Flask-wtf <https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ for the login forms

Usage
^^^^^^^^

The basic template usage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The generated flask web project can be installed using::

    $ make install

or alternatively::

    $ python setup.py install

Your package is then installed globally (or in your virtual environment) on your machine and can be called from your favorite shell::

    $ <<your_project_name>>

Other make targets include::

    $ make clean

which removes all build files::

    $ make dist

which builds source and wheel packages, which can then be used for a PyPi release using::

    $ make release

All possible Makefile commands can be viewed using::

    $ make help

Another possibility is to simply run::

    $ export FLASK_APP = path/to/your/app.py
    $ flask run

Note that, if your current directory contains your app.py file, you do not need to set the environment variable lika above!

.. role:: bash(code)
   :language: bash

The advanced template usage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Using the advanced template, you have to consider a few more steps in order to make it work properly:

1. You can install the project just like described above via :bash:`$ make install`.

2. Now, you have to setup and initialize your SQLite database file using :bash:`$ make init_db`. This step is needed otherwise your app won't work!

3. In order to make your translations working, we need to update and compile the recent translations
   Therefore :bash:`$ flask translate update` and then :bash:`$ flask translate compile`. Note that you have to :bash:`$ export FLASK_APP=your/path/to/app.py`
   if not already done. Then, again, run :bash:`$ make install` to pick up your translations into your actual build.

3. Now, fire up :bash:`$ <<your_project_name>>` and see your project setup working.

A quick note on translations: Your advanced template comes with a basic translation setup for German and English translation.
As your project grows, you may need to add new translations. This can be easily done using the provided cli-commands by the template:

1. If you want to add a new language: Use :bash:`$ flask translate init <<my_new_language>>`. Note that my new language must be a valid language literal like
:bash:`en` for english.

2. :bash:`$ flask translate update` to update all language repositories

3. Now you can update your translations in :bash:`your/path/to/translations/yourlanguage/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po`.

3. :bash:`$ flask translate compile` to compile all language repositories

Note that you need to run :bash:`$ make install` each time after updating and compiling your new translations in order for them to take effect. However, this is not
necessary, if you start your application via :bash:`$ flask run`.


Automatic Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Both templates are ready for deployment using nginx and gunicorn and are therefore shipped with a setup script :bash:`path/to/your/project/deployment_scripts/setup.sh`.
There are a few requirements needed in order to deploy:

 1. You need a registered Domain from your preferred DNS-Provider like `Namecheap <https://www.namecheap.com/>`_.
 2. You need a Linux server, like a droplet at `DigitalOcean <https://www.digitalocean.com/>`_, in order to deploy your application.
 3. To start deployment, you have to setup your server initially. You can follow, for example, the steps `here <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-18-04>`_
    in order to correctly setup your server.

If you meet all the requirements above login (for example via :bash:`$ ssh yourvmusername@your-servers-IP`) into your server and start the setup script::

    $ sudo bash <<your_project_name>>/deployment_scripts/setup.sh

If everything went fine, you should now be able to access your application at your domain.
TODO: IM NGINX.conf is atm a duplicate listen port 80. FIX IT?!
Note that the setup process also includes HTTP to HTTPS redirecting.

If you encounter any problems, dont hesitate to drop us a message in our `Discord <https://discord.com/channels/708008788505919599/708008788505919602>`_. or create an issue `at our github repo <https://github.com/cookiejar/cookietemple/issues/new/choose>`_

FAQ
^^^^

None yet.

Commit message:

[WEB TEMPLATE] Docs, fixed deployment scripts and create process

docs/available_templates/web_website_python.rst, after:

web-website-python
-------------------

Purpose
^^^^^^^^

This template is a `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_  based Web Template that can be customized from two basic layouts and many available frontend templates.
It contains all the code, necessary for project setup and automatic deployment on a Linux server. It also provides a GitHub Workflow for automatic CSS linting on push using
`Stylelint <https://stylelint.io/>`_.

Design
^^^^^^^^
The whole template is designed to be as customizable as possible. Note that all templates could be customized
with a full featured Frontend template setup during the template creation process. However, if you don´t like the offered templates or simply want to create your own frontend,
you can create your template with only a minimal frontend.
You can choose from two main options:

The basic setup
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The basic theme is designed to provide only minimal code needed for getting started: Thus it comes
with only minimal HTML/CSS/JS code (but you can initalize it with a full featured frontend, if you want to) and basic Flask configuration.
However, it contains all the code needed for automatic deployment on a Linux server and adheres to the cookietemple project structure standards.

.. code::

    ├── AUTHORS.rst
    ├── CHANGELOG.rst
    ├── .coafile
    ├── CODEOFCONDUCT.rst
    ├── cookietemple.cfg
    ├── .cookietemple.yml
    ├── .dependabot
    │   └── config.yml
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── docs
    │   ├── authors.rst
    │   ├── changelog.rst
    │   ├── codeofconduct.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   ├── installation.rst
    │   ├── make.bat
    │   ├── Makefile
    │   ├── modules.rst
    │   ├── readme.rst
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── _static
    │   │   └── custom_cookietemple.css
    │   └── usage.rst
    ├── .editorconfig
    ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── cli.py
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield.py
    │   ├── files
    │   │   └── test.txt
    │   └── __init__.py
    ├── .github
    │   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── bug_report.md
    │   │   ├── feature_request.md
    │   │   └── general_question.md
    │   ├── pull_request.md
    │   └── workflows
    │       ├── build_docs.yml
    │       ├── build_package.yml
    │       ├── flake8_linting.yml
    │       ├── pr_to_master_from_dev_only.yml
    │       ├── publish_package.yml
    │       └── tox_testsuite.yml
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile
    ├── MANIFEST.in
    ├── README.rst
    ├── .readthedocs.yml
    ├── requirements_dev.txt
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── tests
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── test_Exploding_Springfield.py
    ├── tox.ini
    └── .travis.yml


The advanced setup
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The advanced theme comes with a lot more functionality by default (and can also be initialized with a full featured, nice frontend):

1. It uses `FlaskSQL-Alchemy <https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/>`_ and `FlaskMigrate <https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to setup a `SQLite <https://www.sqlite.org/index.html>`_ application for simple User Login.

2. It provides translation for German and English using `Flask-Babel <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/>`_.
3. It provides sending mail through `Flask-Mail <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Mail/>`_.
4. It provides error handling through custom error pages.
5. Its configured to be automatically deployed in seconds on a Linux server.
6. More is WIP (Contributions are welcome).

.. code::

    ├── AUTHORS.rst
    ├── babel.cfg
    ├── CHANGELOG.rst
    ├── CODEOFCONDUCT.rst
    ├── cookietemple.cfg
    ├── .cookietemple.yml
    ├── .dependabot
    │   └── config.yml
    ├── deployment_scripts
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── Exploding_Springfield.service
    │   ├── README.md
    │   └── setup.sh
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── docs
    │   ├── authors.rst
    │   ├── changelog.rst
    │   ├── conf.py
    │   ├── contributing.rst
    │   ├── index.rst
    │   ├── installation.rst
    │   ├── make.bat
    │   ├── Makefile
    │   ├── readme.rst
    │   ├── requirements.txt
    │   ├── _static
    │   │   └── custom_cookietemple.css
    │   └── usage.rst
    ├── .editorconfig
    ├── Exploding_Springfield
    │   ├── app.py
    │   ├── auth
    │   │   ├── forms
    │   │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   │   ├── login_form.py
    │   │   │   └── register_form.py
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── routes.py
    │   ├── config.py
    │   ├── errors
    │   │   ├── handlers.py
    │   │   └── __init__.py
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── main
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── routes.py
    │   ├── models
    │   │   ├── __init__.py
    │   │   └── users.py
    │   ├── server.py
    │   ├── services
    │   │   └── __init__.py
    │   ├── static
    │   │   ├── assets
    │   │   │   ├── css
    │   │   │   │   └── min_css.css
    │   │   │   ├── images
    │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   ├── js
    │   │   │   │   └── min_jss.js
    │   │   │   ├── sass
    │   │   │   │   ├── base
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   ├── components
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   ├── layout
    │   │   │   │   │   └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   │   └── libs
    │   │   │   │       └── gitkeep
    │   │   │   └── webfonts
    │   │   │       └── gitkeep
    │   │   └── mail_stub.conf
    │   ├── templates
    │   │   ├── auth
    │   │   │   ├── login.html
    │   │   │   └── register.html
    │   │   ├── base.html
    │   │   ├── errors
    │   │   │   ├── 400.html
    │   │   │   ├── 403.html
    │   │   │   ├── 404.html
    │   │   │   ├── 410.html
    │   │   │   ├── 500.html
    │   │   │   └── error_template.html
    │   │   └── index.html
    │   └── translations
    │       └── de
    │           └── LC_MESSAGES
    │               ├── messages.mo
    │               └── messages.po
    ├── .github
    │   ├── ISSUE_TEMPLATE
    │   │   ├── bug_report.md
    │   │   ├── feature_request.md
    │   │   └── general_question.md
    │   ├── pull_request.md
    │   └── workflows
    │       ├── build_docs.yml
    │       ├── build_package.yml
    │       ├── css_lint.yml
    │       ├── flake8_linting.yml
    │       ├── pr_to_master_from_dev_only.yml
    │       └── tox_testsuite.yml
    ├── .gitignore
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile
    ├── MANIFEST.in
    ├── README.rst
    ├── .readthedocs.yml
    ├── requirements_dev.txt
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── .stylelintrc.json
    ├── tests
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   └── test_Exploding_Springfield.py
    ├── tox.ini
    └── .travis.yml


Included frameworks/libraries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Both templates are based on `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_ and, in the case of the advanced layout,
make heavy use of its extensions.

1. `Flask <https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/>`_
2. `click <https://click.palletsprojects.com/>`_, `argparse <https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html>`_ or no command line interface
3. `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`_ or `unittest <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_ as testing frameworks
4. Preconfigured `tox <https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ to run pytest matrices with different Python environments
5. Preconfigured `readthedocs <https://readthedocs.org/>`_
6. Eight Github workflows:

  1. :code:`build_docs.yml`, which builds the readthedocs documentation.
  2. :code:`build_package.yml`, which builds the web-template package.
  3. :code:`run_flake8_linting.yml`, which runs `flake8 <https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/>`_ linting.
  4. :code:`run_tox_testsuite.yml`, which runs the tox testing suite.
  5. :code:`run_css_lint.yml`, which runs `Stylelint <https://stylelint.io/>`_ CSS linting.
  6. :code:`run_codecov`, apply codecov to your project/PRs in your project and create automatically a report with the details at `codecov.io <https://codecov.io>`_
  7. :code:`run_bandit`, run `bandit <https://github.com/PyCQA/bandit>`_ to discover security issues in your python code
  8. :code:`pr_to_master_from_patch_release_only`: Please read :ref:`pr_master_workflow_docs`.


We highly recommend to use click (if commandline interface is required) together with pytest.

The advanced template therefore uses some more packages including:

1. `FlaskSQL-Alchemy <https://flask-sqlalchemy.palletsprojects.com/en/2.x/>`_
2. `Flask-Migrate <https://flask-migrate.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
3. `Flask-Babel <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Babel/>`_ for translations
4. `Flask-Mail <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Mail/>`_ for mail
5. `Flask-Bootstrap <https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-Bootstrap/>`_ for basic login page styling
6. `Flask-Login <https://flask-login.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ for login session management
7. `Flask-wtf <https://flask-wtf.readthedocs.io/en/stable/>`_ for the login forms

Usage
^^^^^^^^

The basic template usage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The generated flask web project can be installed using::

    $ make install

or alternatively::

    $ python setup.py install

Your package is then installed globally (or in your virtual environment) on your machine and can be called from your favorite shell::

    $ <<your_project_name>>

Other make targets include::

    $ make clean

which removes all build files::

    $ make dist

which builds source and wheel packages, which can then be used for a PyPi release using::

    $ make release

All possible Makefile commands can be viewed using::

    $ make help

Another possibility is to simply run::

    $ export FLASK_APP = path/to/your/app.py
    $ flask run

Note that, if your current directory contains your app.py file, you do not need to set the environment variable lika above!

.. role:: bash(code)
   :language: bash

The advanced template usage
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Using the advanced template, you have to consider a few more steps in order to make it work properly:

1. You can install the project just like described above via :bash:`$ make install`.

2. Now, you have to setup and initialize your SQLite database file using :bash:`$ make init_db`. This step is needed otherwise your app won't work!

3. In order to make your translations working, we need to update and compile the recent translations
   Therefore :bash:`$ flask translate update` and then :bash:`$ flask translate compile`. Note that you have to :bash:`$ export FLASK_APP=your/path/to/app.py`
   if not already done. Then, again, run :bash:`$ make install` to pick up your translations into your actual build.

3. Now, fire up :bash:`$ <<your_project_name>>` and see your project setup working.

A quick note on translations: Your advanced template comes with a basic translation setup for German and English translation.
As your project grows, you may need to add new translations. This can be easily done using the provided cli-commands by the template:

1. If you want to add a new language: Use :bash:`$ flask translate init <<my_new_language>>`. Note that my new language must be a valid language literal like
:bash:`en` for english.

2. :bash:`$ flask translate update` to update all language repositories

3. Now you can update your translations in :bash:`your/path/to/translations/yourlanguage/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po`.

3. :bash:`$ flask translate compile` to compile all language repositories

Note that you need to run :bash:`$ make install` each time after updating and compiling your new translations in order for them to take effect. However, this is not
necessary, if you start your application via :bash:`$ flask run`.


Automatic Deployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Both templates are ready for deployment using nginx and gunicorn and are therefore shipped with a setup script :bash:`path/to/your/project/deployment_scripts/setup.sh`.
There are a few requirements needed in order to deploy:

 1. You need a registered Domain from your preferred DNS-Provider like `Namecheap <https://www.namecheap.com/>`_.
 2. You need a Linux server, like a droplet at `DigitalOcean <https://www.digitalocean.com/>`_, in order to deploy your application.
 3. To start deployment, you have to setup your server initially. You can follow, for example, the steps `here <https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-18-04>`_
    in order to correctly setup your server.

If you meet all the requirements above login (for example via :bash:`$ ssh yourvmusername@your-servers-IP`) into your server:
In order to run the setup script a few more steps are required (Cloning your project and setting up a virtual environment):
 1. Install pip3 and the python3-dev dependencies using :bash:`$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip3 python3-dev nginx -y`
 2. Clone your GitHub repository using:
    :bash:`$ git clone https://github.com/<you_github_username>/<your_project_name>`
 3. Next cd into it via :bash:`$ cd <your_project_name>`
 4. Then, we need to install and create a virtualenv
    :bash:`$ sudo pip3 install virtualenv` (note the sudo here!).
 5. Create a virtualenv named :bash:`dpenv` using :bash:`$ virtualenv dpenv`. You must name your environment like this! Also, make sure your current working directory is your project's top level directory!
 6. Activate the virtualenv with :bash:`$ source dpenv/bin/activate`

When done, you can now fire up the setup script to deploy your application:
Use :bash:`$ sudo bash deployment_scripts/setup.sh` and deployment process starts.

Tip: You can check :bash:`$ sudo systemctl status <my_project_name>` to check for the working state of your gunicorn instance or any errors.

If everything went fine, you should now be able to access your application at your domain.
Note that the setup process also includes HTTP to HTTPS redirecting.

In case of any problems, dont hesitate to drop us a message in our `Discord <https://discord.com/channels/708008788505919599/708008788505919602>`_. or create an issue `at our github repo <https://github.com/cookiejar/cookietemple/issues/new/choose>`_

FAQ
^^^^

None yet.
