cookietemple/create/templates/gui/gui_java/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}/docs/installation.rst, before:

.. highlight:: shell

============
Installation
============


Stable release
--------------

To install {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}, run this command in your terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    $ pip install {{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}

This is the preferred method to install {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}, as it will always install the most recent stable release.

If you don't have `pip`_ installed, this `Python installation guide`_ can guide
you through the process.

.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io
.. _Python installation guide: http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/starting/installation/


From sources
------------

The sources for {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} can be downloaded from the `Github repo`_.

You can either clone the public repository:

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone git://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}

Or download the `tarball`_:

.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -OJL https://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}/tarball/master

Once you have a copy of the source, you can install it with:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python setup.py install


.. _Github repo: https://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}
.. _tarball: https://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}/tarball/master

Commit message:

[FEATURE] gui-java docs in gui-java

cookietemple/create/templates/gui/gui_java/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}/docs/installation.rst, after:

.. highlight:: shell

============
Installation
============


From Sources
--------------

The sources for {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} can be downloaded from the `Github repo`_.

You can either clone the public repository:

.. code-block:: console

    $ git clone git://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}

Or download the `tarball`_:

.. code-block:: console

    $ curl -OJL https://github.com/{{ cookiecutter.github_username }}/{{ cookiecutter.project_slug }}/tarball/master

To install {{ cookiecutter.project_name }}, run this command in your terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    $ make install

The installation requires `Maven <https://maven.apache.org/>`_ and Java 11+.
To compile {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} run::

    $ make compile

Moreover, to package {{ cookiecutter.project_name }} with a custom, platform dependent JRE run:

    $ make dist

To finally link all those files together into a single executable and distributable binary run:

    $ make binary

Please note that this functionality requires `COOKIETEMPLE <https://cookietemple.com>`_.

.. _Github repo: https://github.com/cookiejardealer/cookietemple
.. _tarball: https://github.com/cookiejardealer/cookietemple/tarball/master
